packages/opencode-hive/skills/executing-plans/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: executing-plans
description: Use when you have a written implementation plan to execute in a separate session with review checkpoints
---

# Executing Plans

## Overview

Load plan, review critically, execute tasks in batches, report for review between batches.

**Core principle:** Batch execution with checkpoints for architect review.

**Announce at start:** "I'm using the executing-plans skill to implement this plan."

## The Process

### Step 1: Load and Review Plan
1. Read plan file
2. Review critically - identify any questions or concerns about the plan
3. If concerns: Raise them with your human partner before starting
4. If no concerns: Create TodoWrite and proceed

### Step 2: Execute Batch
**Default: First 3 tasks**

For each task:
1. Mark as in_progress
2. Follow each step exactly (plan has bite-sized steps)
3. Run verifications as specified
4. Mark as completed

### Step 3: Report
When batch complete:
- Show what was implemented
- Show verification output
- Say: "Ready for feedback."

### Step 4: Continue
Based on feedback:
- Apply changes if needed
- Execute next batch
- Repeat until complete

### Step 5: Complete Development

After all tasks complete and verified:
- Announce: "I'm using the finishing-a-development-branch skill to complete this work."
- **REQUIRED SUB-SKILL:** Use hive_skill:finishing-a-development-branch
- Follow that skill to verify tests, present options, execute choice

## When to Stop and Ask for Help

**STOP executing immediately when:**
- Hit a blocker mid-batch (missing dependency, test fails, instruction unclear)
- Plan has critical gaps preventing starting
- You don't understand an instruction
- Verification fails repeatedly

**Ask for clarification rather than guessing.**

## When to Revisit Earlier Steps

**Return to Review (Step 1) when:**
- Partner updates the plan based on your feedback
- Fundamental approach needs rethinking

**Don't force through blockers** - stop and ask.

## Remember
- Review plan critically first
- Follow plan steps exactly
- Don't skip verifications
- Reference skills when plan says to
- Between batches: just report and wait
- Stop when blocked, don't guess

Commit message:

feat: guide dependency-aware task batching
Update execution and parallelization skills plus agent prompts to use runnable tasks, ask operators before parallelizing, and record decisions.

packages/opencode-hive/skills/executing-plans/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: executing-plans
description: Use when you have a written implementation plan to execute in a separate session with review checkpoints
---

# Executing Plans

## Overview

Load plan, review critically, execute tasks in batches, report for review between batches.

**Core principle:** Batch execution with checkpoints for architect review.

**Announce at start:** "I'm using the executing-plans skill to implement this plan."

## The Process

### Step 1: Load and Review Plan
1. Read plan file
2. Review critically - identify any questions or concerns about the plan
3. If concerns: Raise them with your human partner before starting
4. If no concerns: Create TodoWrite and proceed

### Step 2: Identify Runnable Tasks

Use `hive_status()` to get the **runnable** list — tasks with all dependencies satisfied.

**When 2+ tasks are runnable:**
- **Ask the operator** via `question()`: "Multiple tasks are runnable: [list]. Run in parallel, sequential, or a specific subset?"
- Record the decision with `hive_context_write({ name: "execution-decisions", content: "..." })` for future reference

**When 1 task is runnable:** Proceed directly.

### Step 3: Execute Batch

For each task in the batch:
1. Mark as in_progress via `hive_exec_start()`
2. Follow each step exactly (plan has bite-sized steps)
3. Run verifications as specified
4. Mark as completed

### Step 4: Report
When batch complete:
- Show what was implemented
- Show verification output
- Say: "Ready for feedback."

### Step 5: Continue
Based on feedback:
- Apply changes if needed
- Execute next batch
- Repeat until complete

### Step 6: Complete Development

After all tasks complete and verified:
- Announce: "I'm using the finishing-a-development-branch skill to complete this work."
- **REQUIRED SUB-SKILL:** Use hive_skill:finishing-a-development-branch
- Follow that skill to verify tests, present options, execute choice

## When to Stop and Ask for Help

**STOP executing immediately when:**
- Hit a blocker mid-batch (missing dependency, test fails, instruction unclear)
- Plan has critical gaps preventing starting
- You don't understand an instruction
- Verification fails repeatedly

**Ask for clarification rather than guessing.**

## When to Revisit Earlier Steps

**Return to Review (Step 1) when:**
- Partner updates the plan based on your feedback
- Fundamental approach needs rethinking

**Don't force through blockers** - stop and ask.

## Remember
- Review plan critically first
- Follow plan steps exactly
- Don't skip verifications
- Reference skills when plan says to
- Between batches: just report and wait
- Stop when blocked, don't guess
