packages/opencode-hive/README.md, before:

# opencode-hive

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/opencode-hive)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/opencode-hive)
[![License: MIT with Commons Clause](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT%20with%20Commons%20Clause-blue.svg)](../../LICENSE)

**From Vibe Coding to Hive Coding** — The OpenCode plugin that brings structure to AI-assisted development.

## Why Hive?

Stop losing context. Stop repeating decisions. Start shipping with confidence.

```
Vibe: "Just make it work"
Hive: Plan → Review → Approve → Execute → Ship
```

## Installation

```bash
npm install opencode-hive
```

## Optional: Enable MCP Research Tools

1. Create `.opencode/mcp-servers.json` using the template:
   - From this repo: `packages/opencode-hive/templates/mcp-servers.json`
   - Or from npm: `node_modules/opencode-hive/templates/mcp-servers.json`
2. Set `EXA_API_KEY` to enable `websearch_exa` (optional).
3. Restart OpenCode.

This enables tools like `grep_app_searchGitHub`, `context7_query-docs`, `websearch_web_search_exa`, and `ast_grep_search`.

## The Workflow

1. **Create Feature** — `hive_feature_create("dark-mode")`
2. **Write Plan** — AI generates structured plan
3. **Review** — You review in VS Code, add comments
4. **Approve** — `hive_plan_approve()`
5. **Execute** — Tasks run in isolated git worktrees
6. **Ship** — Clean commits, full audit trail

## Tools

### Feature Management
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_feature_create` | Create a new feature |
| `hive_feature_list` | List all features |
| `hive_feature_complete` | Mark feature as complete |

### Planning
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_plan_write` | Write plan.md |
| `hive_plan_read` | Read plan and comments |
| `hive_plan_approve` | Approve plan for execution |

### Tasks
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_tasks_sync` | Generate tasks from plan |
| `hive_task_create` | Create manual task |
| `hive_task_update` | Update task status/summary |

### Execution
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_exec_start` | Start work on task (creates worktree) |
| `hive_exec_complete` | Complete task (applies changes) |
| `hive_exec_abort` | Abort task (discard changes) |

### Background Tasks
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `background_task` | Spawn a background agent task |
| `background_output` | Get output from a running/completed task |
| `background_cancel` | Cancel running background task(s) |

The `background_task` tool supports `promptFile` as an alternative to inline `prompt`:
```typescript
background_task({
  agent: "forager-worker",
  promptFile: ".hive/features/my-feature/tasks/01-task/worker-prompt.md",
  description: "Execute task 01",
  workdir: "/path/to/worktree"
})
```

## Prompt Budgeting & Observability

Hive automatically bounds worker prompt sizes to prevent context overflow and tool output truncation.

### Budgeting Defaults

| Limit | Default | Description |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| `maxTasks` | 10 | Number of previous tasks included |
| `maxSummaryChars` | 2,000 | Max chars per task summary |
| `maxContextChars` | 20,000 | Max chars per context file |
| `maxTotalContextChars` | 60,000 | Total context budget |

When limits are exceeded, content is truncated with `...[truncated]` markers and file path hints are provided so workers can read the full content.

### Observability

`hive_exec_start` output includes metadata fields:

- **`promptMeta`**: Character counts for plan, context, previousTasks, spec, workerPrompt
- **`payloadMeta`**: JSON payload size, whether prompt is inlined or referenced by file
- **`budgetApplied`**: Budget limits, tasks included/dropped, path hints for dropped content
- **`warnings`**: Array of threshold exceedances with severity levels (info/warning/critical)

### Prompt Files

Large prompts are written to `.hive/features/<feature>/tasks/<task>/worker-prompt.md` and passed by file reference (`workerPromptPath`) rather than inlined in tool output. This prevents truncation of large prompts.

## Plan Format

```markdown
# Feature Name

## Overview
What we're building and why.

## Tasks

### 1. Task Name
Description of what to do.

### 2. Another Task
Description.
```

## Configuration

Hive uses a config file at `~/.config/opencode/agent_hive.json`. You can customize agent models, variants, disable skills, and disable MCP servers.

### Disable Skills or MCPs

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tctinh/agent-hive/main/packages/opencode-hive/schema/agent_hive.schema.json",
  "disableSkills": ["brainstorming", "writing-plans"],
  "disableMcps": ["websearch", "ast_grep"]
}
```

#### Available Skills

| ID | Description |
|----|-------------|
| `brainstorming` | Use before any creative work. Explores user intent, requirements, and design through collaborative dialogue before implementation. |
| `writing-plans` | Use when you have a spec or requirements for a multi-step task. Creates detailed implementation plans with bite-sized tasks. |
| `executing-plans` | Use when you have a written implementation plan. Executes tasks in batches with review checkpoints. |
| `dispatching-parallel-agents` | Use when facing 2+ independent tasks. Dispatches multiple agents to work concurrently on unrelated problems. |
| `test-driven-development` | Use when implementing any feature or bugfix. Enforces write-test-first, red-green-refactor cycle. |
| `systematic-debugging` | Use when encountering any bug or test failure. Requires root cause investigation before proposing fixes. |
| `verification-before-completion` | Use before claiming work is complete. Requires running verification commands and confirming output before success claims. |

#### Available MCPs

| ID | Description | Requirements |
|----|-------------|--------------|
| `websearch` | Web search via [Exa AI](https://exa.ai). Real-time web searches and content scraping. | Set `EXA_API_KEY` env var |
| `context7` | Library documentation lookup via [Context7](https://context7.com). Query up-to-date docs for any programming library. | None |
| `grep_app` | GitHub code search via [grep.app](https://grep.app). Find real-world code examples from public repositories. | None |
| `ast_grep` | AST-aware code search and replace via [ast-grep](https://ast-grep.github.io). Pattern matching across 25+ languages. | None (runs via npx) |

### Per-Agent Skills

Each agent can have specific skills enabled. If configured, only those skills are available:

```json
{
  "agents": {
    "hive-master": {
      "skills": ["brainstorming", "writing-plans", "executing-plans"]
    },
    "forager-worker": {
      "skills": ["test-driven-development", "verification-before-completion"]
    }
  }
}
```

**How `skills` filtering works:**

| Config | Result |
|--------|--------|
| `skills` omitted | All skills enabled (minus global `disableSkills`) |
| `skills: []` | All skills enabled (minus global `disableSkills`) |
| `skills: ["tdd", "debug"]` | Only those skills enabled |

Note: Wildcards like `["*"]` are **not supported** - use explicit skill names or omit the field entirely for all skills.

### Per-Agent Model Variants

You can set a `variant` for each Hive agent to control model reasoning/effort level. Variants are keys that map to model-specific option overrides defined in your `opencode.json`.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tctinh/agent-hive/main/packages/opencode-hive/schema/agent_hive.schema.json",
  "agents": {
    "hive-master": {
      "model": "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514",
      "variant": "high"
    },
    "forager-worker": {
      "model": "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514",
      "variant": "medium"
    },
    "scout-researcher": {
      "variant": "low"
    }
  }
}
```

The `variant` value must match a key in your OpenCode config at `provider.<provider>.models.<model>.variants`. For example, with Anthropic models you might configure thinking budgets:

```json
// opencode.json
{
  "provider": {
    "anthropic": {
      "models": {
        "claude-sonnet-4-20250514": {
          "variants": {
            "low": { "thinking": { "budget_tokens": 5000 } },
            "medium": { "thinking": { "budget_tokens": 10000 } },
            "high": { "thinking": { "budget_tokens": 25000 } }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Precedence:** If a prompt already has an explicit variant set, the per-agent config acts as a default and will not override it. Invalid or missing variant keys are treated as no-op (the model runs with default settings).

### Custom Models

Override models for specific agents:

```json
{
  "agents": {
    "hive-master": {
      "model": "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514",
      "temperature": 0.5
    }
  }
}
```

## Pair with VS Code

For the full experience, install [vscode-hive](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tctinh.vscode-hive) to review plans inline with comments.

## License

MIT with Commons Clause — Free for personal and non-commercial use. See [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) for details.

---

**Stop vibing. Start hiving.** 🐝

Commit message:

docs(opencode-hive): document planning-mode delegation
Add a Planning-mode delegation section clarifying that planning forbids implementation (no edits/worktrees) but allows read-only exploration and Scout delegation. Include the canonical delegation threshold and sync guidance.

Add README assertions to keep the docs aligned with prompt semantics.

packages/opencode-hive/README.md, after:

# opencode-hive

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/opencode-hive)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/opencode-hive)
[![License: MIT with Commons Clause](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT%20with%20Commons%20Clause-blue.svg)](../../LICENSE)

**From Vibe Coding to Hive Coding** — The OpenCode plugin that brings structure to AI-assisted development.

## Why Hive?

Stop losing context. Stop repeating decisions. Start shipping with confidence.

```
Vibe: "Just make it work"
Hive: Plan → Review → Approve → Execute → Ship
```

## Installation

```bash
npm install opencode-hive
```

## Optional: Enable MCP Research Tools

1. Create `.opencode/mcp-servers.json` using the template:
   - From this repo: `packages/opencode-hive/templates/mcp-servers.json`
   - Or from npm: `node_modules/opencode-hive/templates/mcp-servers.json`
2. Set `EXA_API_KEY` to enable `websearch_exa` (optional).
3. Restart OpenCode.

This enables tools like `grep_app_searchGitHub`, `context7_query-docs`, `websearch_web_search_exa`, and `ast_grep_search`.

## The Workflow

1. **Create Feature** — `hive_feature_create("dark-mode")`
2. **Write Plan** — AI generates structured plan
3. **Review** — You review in VS Code, add comments
4. **Approve** — `hive_plan_approve()`
5. **Execute** — Tasks run in isolated git worktrees
6. **Ship** — Clean commits, full audit trail

### Planning-mode delegation

During planning, "don't execute" means "don't implement" (no code edits, no worktrees). Read-only exploration is explicitly allowed and encouraged, both via local tools and by delegating to Scout.

#### Canonical Delegation Threshold

- Delegate to Scout when you cannot name the file path upfront, expect to inspect 2+ files, or the question is open-ended ("how/where does X work?").
- Prefer `background_task(agent: "scout-researcher", sync: true, ...)` for single investigations; use `sync: false` only for multi-scout fan-out.
- Local `read`/`grep`/`glob` is acceptable only for a single known file and a bounded question.

## Tools

### Feature Management
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_feature_create` | Create a new feature |
| `hive_feature_list` | List all features |
| `hive_feature_complete` | Mark feature as complete |

### Planning
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_plan_write` | Write plan.md |
| `hive_plan_read` | Read plan and comments |
| `hive_plan_approve` | Approve plan for execution |

### Tasks
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_tasks_sync` | Generate tasks from plan |
| `hive_task_create` | Create manual task |
| `hive_task_update` | Update task status/summary |

### Execution
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `hive_exec_start` | Start work on task (creates worktree) |
| `hive_exec_complete` | Complete task (applies changes) |
| `hive_exec_abort` | Abort task (discard changes) |

### Background Tasks
| Tool | Description |
|------|-------------|
| `background_task` | Spawn a background agent task |
| `background_output` | Get output from a running/completed task |
| `background_cancel` | Cancel running background task(s) |

The `background_task` tool supports `promptFile` as an alternative to inline `prompt`:
```typescript
background_task({
  agent: "forager-worker",
  promptFile: ".hive/features/my-feature/tasks/01-task/worker-prompt.md",
  description: "Execute task 01",
  workdir: "/path/to/worktree"
})
```

## Prompt Budgeting & Observability

Hive automatically bounds worker prompt sizes to prevent context overflow and tool output truncation.

### Budgeting Defaults

| Limit | Default | Description |
|-------|---------|-------------|
| `maxTasks` | 10 | Number of previous tasks included |
| `maxSummaryChars` | 2,000 | Max chars per task summary |
| `maxContextChars` | 20,000 | Max chars per context file |
| `maxTotalContextChars` | 60,000 | Total context budget |

When limits are exceeded, content is truncated with `...[truncated]` markers and file path hints are provided so workers can read the full content.

### Observability

`hive_exec_start` output includes metadata fields:

- **`promptMeta`**: Character counts for plan, context, previousTasks, spec, workerPrompt
- **`payloadMeta`**: JSON payload size, whether prompt is inlined or referenced by file
- **`budgetApplied`**: Budget limits, tasks included/dropped, path hints for dropped content
- **`warnings`**: Array of threshold exceedances with severity levels (info/warning/critical)

### Prompt Files

Large prompts are written to `.hive/features/<feature>/tasks/<task>/worker-prompt.md` and passed by file reference (`workerPromptPath`) rather than inlined in tool output. This prevents truncation of large prompts.

## Plan Format

```markdown
# Feature Name

## Overview
What we're building and why.

## Tasks

### 1. Task Name
Description of what to do.

### 2. Another Task
Description.
```

## Configuration

Hive uses a config file at `~/.config/opencode/agent_hive.json`. You can customize agent models, variants, disable skills, and disable MCP servers.

### Disable Skills or MCPs

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tctinh/agent-hive/main/packages/opencode-hive/schema/agent_hive.schema.json",
  "disableSkills": ["brainstorming", "writing-plans"],
  "disableMcps": ["websearch", "ast_grep"]
}
```

#### Available Skills

| ID | Description |
|----|-------------|
| `brainstorming` | Use before any creative work. Explores user intent, requirements, and design through collaborative dialogue before implementation. |
| `writing-plans` | Use when you have a spec or requirements for a multi-step task. Creates detailed implementation plans with bite-sized tasks. |
| `executing-plans` | Use when you have a written implementation plan. Executes tasks in batches with review checkpoints. |
| `dispatching-parallel-agents` | Use when facing 2+ independent tasks. Dispatches multiple agents to work concurrently on unrelated problems. |
| `test-driven-development` | Use when implementing any feature or bugfix. Enforces write-test-first, red-green-refactor cycle. |
| `systematic-debugging` | Use when encountering any bug or test failure. Requires root cause investigation before proposing fixes. |
| `verification-before-completion` | Use before claiming work is complete. Requires running verification commands and confirming output before success claims. |

#### Available MCPs

| ID | Description | Requirements |
|----|-------------|--------------|
| `websearch` | Web search via [Exa AI](https://exa.ai). Real-time web searches and content scraping. | Set `EXA_API_KEY` env var |
| `context7` | Library documentation lookup via [Context7](https://context7.com). Query up-to-date docs for any programming library. | None |
| `grep_app` | GitHub code search via [grep.app](https://grep.app). Find real-world code examples from public repositories. | None |
| `ast_grep` | AST-aware code search and replace via [ast-grep](https://ast-grep.github.io). Pattern matching across 25+ languages. | None (runs via npx) |

### Per-Agent Skills

Each agent can have specific skills enabled. If configured, only those skills are available:

```json
{
  "agents": {
    "hive-master": {
      "skills": ["brainstorming", "writing-plans", "executing-plans"]
    },
    "forager-worker": {
      "skills": ["test-driven-development", "verification-before-completion"]
    }
  }
}
```

**How `skills` filtering works:**

| Config | Result |
|--------|--------|
| `skills` omitted | All skills enabled (minus global `disableSkills`) |
| `skills: []` | All skills enabled (minus global `disableSkills`) |
| `skills: ["tdd", "debug"]` | Only those skills enabled |

Note: Wildcards like `["*"]` are **not supported** - use explicit skill names or omit the field entirely for all skills.

### Per-Agent Model Variants

You can set a `variant` for each Hive agent to control model reasoning/effort level. Variants are keys that map to model-specific option overrides defined in your `opencode.json`.

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tctinh/agent-hive/main/packages/opencode-hive/schema/agent_hive.schema.json",
  "agents": {
    "hive-master": {
      "model": "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514",
      "variant": "high"
    },
    "forager-worker": {
      "model": "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514",
      "variant": "medium"
    },
    "scout-researcher": {
      "variant": "low"
    }
  }
}
```

The `variant` value must match a key in your OpenCode config at `provider.<provider>.models.<model>.variants`. For example, with Anthropic models you might configure thinking budgets:

```json
// opencode.json
{
  "provider": {
    "anthropic": {
      "models": {
        "claude-sonnet-4-20250514": {
          "variants": {
            "low": { "thinking": { "budget_tokens": 5000 } },
            "medium": { "thinking": { "budget_tokens": 10000 } },
            "high": { "thinking": { "budget_tokens": 25000 } }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Precedence:** If a prompt already has an explicit variant set, the per-agent config acts as a default and will not override it. Invalid or missing variant keys are treated as no-op (the model runs with default settings).

### Custom Models

Override models for specific agents:

```json
{
  "agents": {
    "hive-master": {
      "model": "anthropic/claude-sonnet-4-20250514",
      "temperature": 0.5
    }
  }
}
```

## Pair with VS Code

For the full experience, install [vscode-hive](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=tctinh.vscode-hive) to review plans inline with comments.

## License

MIT with Commons Clause — Free for personal and non-commercial use. See [LICENSE](../../LICENSE) for details.

---

**Stop vibing. Start hiving.** 🐝
